Added glossary for Single Sign-On (#136)
redhat-documentation/supplementary-style-guide: supplementary_style_guide/glossary_terms_conventions/product_conventions/red-hat-single-sign-on.adoc

[[red-hat-single-sign-on-conventions]]

[discrete]
[[access-token]]
== Access token

> A token that can be provided as part of an HTTP request that grants access to the service being invoked on. This is part of the OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 specification.

Reviewer: @ndeevy I don't understand the "on" at the end of the sentence. Would it be correct to say the following:
```suggestion
A token that can be provided as part of an HTTP request that grants access to the service on which the request is  being invoked. This is part of the OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 specification.
```

> A token that can be provided as part of an HTTP request that grants access to the service on which the request is  being invoked. This is part of the OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 specification.

Reviewer 2: I think the convention is to use full sentences.

Is there an extra space between "is" and "being"?

Author: Looks like there is a space yes, I'll fix that. Well spotted, thanks Les!
About the full sentences, I agree. It'd need to be changed throughout though for consistency.
 @andymunro would you mind weighing in on this. Should I update all the entries for full sentences or would you like to address it down the road?

> A token that can be provided as part of an HTTP request that grants access to the service on which the request is  being invoked. This is part of the OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 specification.

Author: ```suggestion
A token that can be provided as part of an HTTP request that grants access to the service on which the request is being invoked. This is part of the OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 specification.
```

[discrete]
[[assertion]]
== Assertion

> Information about a user. This usually pertains to an XML blob that is included in a SAML authentication response that provided identity metadata about an authenticated user.

Reviewer 2: I think the convention is to use full sentences.

Reviewer 3: Thanks, @leswilliams44 
@ndeevy Can you make it  "An assertion provides information about a user."

[discrete]
[[authentication]]
== Authentication
The process of identifying and validating a user.

[discrete]
[[authentication-flows]]
== Authentication flows
Authentication flows are work flows a user must perform when interacting with certain aspects of the system. A login flow can define what credential types are required. A registration flow defines what profile information a user must enter and whether something like reCAPTCHA must be used to filter out bots. Credential reset flow defines what actions a user must do before they can reset their password.

[discrete]
[[authorization]]

> == Authorization

Reviewer 3: @ndeevy Please change to "Authorization is the process..."

The process of granting access to a user.

[discrete]
[[client-adapters]]
== Client adapters

> Client adapters are plugins that you install into your application environment to be able to communicate and be secured by Red Hat Single Sign-On. Red Hat Single Sign-On has a number of adapters for different platforms that you can download. There are also third-party adapters you can use for environments that Red Hat do not cover.

Reviewer: ```Client adapters are plugins that you install into your application environment to be able to communicate and be secured by Red Hat Single Sign-On.```

I don't understand:

- who or what will be able to communicate after installing the plugins.
- what is being secured by SSO.

Reviewer 3: @ndeevy Can you change this to 
Client adapters are libraries that make it easy to secure applications and services with Red Hat Single Sign-On.
Thanks, @stoobie

[discrete]
[[client-role]]
== Client role

> Clients can define roles that are specific to them. This is basically a role namespace dedicated to the client.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A client role is a role namespace dedicated to the client. Each client has roles that are specific to it. 
```

[discrete]
[[client-scopes]]
== Client scopes

> When a client is registered, you must define protocol mappers and role scope mappings for that client. It is often useful to store a client scope, to make creating new clients easier by sharing some common settings. This is also useful for requesting some claims or roles to be conditionally based on the value of `scope` parameter. Red Hat Single Sign-On provides the concept of a client scope for this.

Reviewer: `It is often useful to store a client scope, to make creating new clients easier`

Sounds confusing. It would help me parse it if you added "in order" before the second "to":
`...in order to make creating new clients easier...`

Reviewer 3: Thanks, @stoobie 
@ndeevy Can you change it to " To simplify the task of creating clients, you may decide to store a client scope so that you can share some common settings."

[discrete]
[[clients]]

> == Cllients

Reviewer 3: Extra L here:  Clients

Author: Nice catch! thanks @andymunro

> Clients are entities that can request Red Hat Single Sign-On to authenticate a user. Most often, clients are applications and services that want to use Red Hat Single Sign-On to secure themselves and provide a single sign-on solution. Clients can also be entities that only want to request identity information or an access token so that they can securely invoke other services on the network that are secured by Red Hat Single Sign-On.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Clients are entities that request Red Hat Single Sign-On to authenticate a user. Most often, clients are applications and services that want to use Red Hat Single Sign-On to secure themselves and provide a single sign-on solution. Clients are also entities that request identity information or an access token, so that they can securely invoke other services on the network that are secured by Red Hat Single Sign-On.
```

[[composite-roles]]
== Composite roles
A composite role is a role that can be associated with other roles. For example a `superuser` composite role can be associated with the `sales-admin` and `order-entry-admin` roles. If a user is mapped to the `superuser` role they also inherit the `sales-admin` and `order-entry-admin` roles.

[discrete]
[[consent]]
== Consent
Consent is when you as an `admin` want a user to give permission to a client before that client can participate in the authentication process. After a user provides their credentials, Red Hat Single Sign-On opens a screen identifying the client requesting a login and what identity information is requested of the user. Users can decide whether or not to grant the request.

[discrete]
[[credentials]]
== Credentials
Credentials are pieces of data that Red Hat Single Sign-On uses to verify the identity of a user. Some examples are passwords, one-time-passwords, digital certificates, or even fingerprints.

[discrete]
[[direct-grant]]

> == Direct grant

Reviewer 3: @ndeevy Please change to "A direct grant is ..."

A way for a client to obtain an access token on behalf of a user through a REST invocation.

[discrete]
[[events]]
== Events

> Events are audit streams that admins can view and hook into.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Events are audit streams that admins view and connect.
```

Note: not sure if "hook into" means connect or be connected to. Please reword as originally intended.

[discrete]
[[groups]]
== Groups
Groups manage groups of users. Attributes can be defined for a group. You can also map roles to a group. Users that become members of a group inherit the attributes and role mappings that group defines.

[discrete]
[[identity-provider]]
== Identity provider

> An identity provider (IDP) is a service that can authenticate a user. Red Hat Single Sign-On is an IDP.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An identity provider (IDP) is a service that authenticates a user. Red Hat Single Sign-On is an IDP.
```

[discrete]
[[identity-provider-federation]]
== Identity provider federation
Red Hat Single Sign-On can be configured to delegate authentication to one or more IDPs. Social login through Facebook or Google+ is an example of identity provider federation. You can also hook Red Hat Single Sign-On to delegate authentication to any other OpenID Connect or SAML 2.0 IDP.

[discrete]
[[identity-provider-mappers]]
== Identity provider mappers
When doing IDP federation you can map incoming tokens and assertions to user and session attributes. This helps you propagate identity information from the external IDP to your client requesting authentication.

[discrete]
[[identity-token]]
== Identity token
A token that provides identity information about the user. Part of the OpenID Connect specification.

[discrete]
[[protocol-mappers]]
== Protocol mappers
For each client you can tailor what claims and assertions are stored in the OIDC token or SAML assertion. You do this per client by creating and configuring protocol mappers.

[discrete]
[[realms]]

> == Realms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Realm
```

> A realm manages a set of users, credentials, roles, and groups. A user belongs to and logs into a realm. Realms are isolated from one another and can only manage and authenticate the users that they control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manages a set of users, credentials, roles, and groups. A user belongs to and logs into a realm. Realms are isolated from one another and can only manage and authenticate the users that they control.
```

[discrete]
[[required-actions]]

> == Required actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Required action
```

> == Required action

Reviewer 3: @ndeevy Please change to "A required action is an action..."

> Required actions are actions a user must perform during the authentication process. A user cannot complete the authentication process until these actions are complete. For example, an admin might schedule users to reset their passwords every month. An update password required action is set for all these users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An action a user must perform during the authentication process. A user cannot complete the authentication process until this actions is complete. For example, an admin might schedule users to reset their passwords every month. An update password required action is set for all these users.
```

Author: ```suggestion
An action a user must perform during the authentication process. A user cannot complete the authentication process until this action is complete. For example, an admin might schedule users to reset their passwords every month. An update password required action is set for all these users.
```

[discrete]
[[roles]]

> == Roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Role
```

> Identifies a type or category of user. `Admin`, `user`, `manager`, and `employee` are all typical roles that may exist in an organization. Applications often assign access and permissions to specific roles rather than individual users because dealing with users can be too granular and hard to manage.

Reviewer 3: @ndeevy Please change to "A role identifies ...'

> Roles identify a type or category of user. `Admin`, `user`, `manager`, and `employee` are all typical roles that may exist in an organization. Applications often assign access and permissions to specific roles rather than individual users because dealing with users can be too granular and hard to manage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Identifies a type or category of user. `Admin`, `user`, `manager`, and `employee` are all typical roles that may exist in an organization. Applications often assign access and permissions to specific roles rather than individual users because dealing with users can be too granular and hard to manage.
```

[discrete]
[[service-account]]
== Service account
Each client has a built-in service account to obtain an access token.

[discrete]
[[session]]
== Session
When a user logs in, a session is created to manage the login session. A session contains information like when the user logged in and what applications have participated within single-sign on during that session. Both admins and users can view session information.

[discrete]
[[themes]]

> == Theme

Reviewer 3: @ndeevy  Please change to "A theme defines..."

> == Themes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Theme
```

> Every screen provided by Red Hat Single Sign-On is backed by a theme. Themes define HTML templates and stylesheets that you can override as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defines HTML templates and stylesheets that you can override as needed. Every screen provided by Red Hat Single Sign-On is backed by a theme. 
```

[discrete]
[[user-federation-provider]]
== User federation provider
Red Hat Single Sign-On can store and manage users. Often, companies already have LDAP or Active Directory services that store user and credential information. You can point Red Hat Single Sign-On to validate credentials from those external stores and pull in identity information.

[discrete]
[[user-role-mapping]]
== User role mapping
A user role mapping defines a mapping between a role and a user. A user can be associated with zero or more roles. This role mapping information can be encapsulated into tokens and assertions so that applications can decide access permissions on various resources they manage.

[discrete]
[[users]]

> == User

Reviewer 3: @ndeevy Please change to "A user is an ..."

> == Users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== User
```

> Users are entities that can log into your system. They can have attributes associated with themselves like email, username, address, phone number, and birth day. They can be assigned group membership and have specific roles assigned to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An entity that can log into your system. A user can have attributes associated with themselves like email, username, address, phone number, and birthday. They can be assigned group membership and have specific roles assigned to them.
```

[[red-hat-single-sign-on-conventions]]

[discrete]
[[access-token]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] access token

> An access token is a token that can be provided as part of an HTTP request that grants access to the service being invoked on. This is part of the OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 specification.

Reviewer 5: All of these descriptions are missing the `*Description*:` labels

Author: Uff! apologies. On it

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
[[direct-grant]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] direct grant
*Description*: A direct grant is a way for a client to obtain an access token on behalf of a user through a REST invocation.

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
[[event-rhsso]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] event
*Description*: An event is an audit stream that administrators view and connect to.

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
[[group]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] group
*Description*: A group manages a collection of users. You can define attributes for a group. You can also map roles to a group. Users that become members of a group inherit the attributes and role mappings that group defines.

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
[[identity-provider]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] identity provider
*Description*: An identity provider (IDP) is a service that authenticates a user. Red Hat Single Sign-On is an IDP.

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
[[identity-provider-federation]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] identity provider federation

> *Description*: Red Hat Single Sign-On can be configured to delegate authentication to one or more IDPs. Social login through Facebook or Google+ is an example of identity provider federation. You can also hook Red Hat Single Sign-On to delegate authentication to any other OpenID Connect or SAML 2.0 IDP.

Author: ```suggestion
*Description*: Red Hat Single Sign-On can be configured to delegate authentication to one or more IDPs. Social login through Facebook or Twitter is an example of identity provider federation. You can also connect Red Hat Single Sign-On to delegate authentication to any other OpenID Connect or SAML 2.0 IDP.
```

Author: Done @andymunro, thank you. Also suggesting to replace 'hook' with 'connect'  wdyt?

Reviewer 3: Sounds a lot more professional.

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
[[required-action]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] Required action
A required action is an action that a user must perform during the authentication process. A user cannot complete the authentication process until these actions are complete. For example, an admin might schedule users to reset their passwords every month. An update password required action is set for all these users.

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
[[role]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] Role
A role identifies a type or category of user. `Admin`, `user`, `manager`, and `employee` are all typical roles that might exist in an organization. Applications often assign access and permissions to specific roles rather than individual users because dealing with users can be too granular and hard to manage.

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
[[service-account]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] Service account
Each client has a built-in service account to obtain an access token.

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
//[[session]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] Session

> When a user logs in, a session is created to manage the login session. A session contains information like when the user logged in and what applications have participated within single-sign on during that session. Both admins and users can view session information.

Reviewer 5: * single-sign on -> single sign-on
* like -> such as

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
[[theme]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] Theme
A theme defines HTML templates and stylesheets that you can override as you require. Every screen that Red Hat Single Sign-On provides is backed by a theme.

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
[[user-federation-provider]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] User federation provider
Red Hat Single Sign-On can store and manage users. Often, companies already have LDAP or Active Directory services that store user and credential information. You can point Red Hat Single Sign-On to validate credentials from those external stores and pull in identity information.

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
[[user-role-mapping]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] User role mapping
A user role mapping defines a mapping between a role and a user. A user can be associated with zero or more roles. This role mapping information can be encapsulated into tokens and assertions so that applications can decide access permissions on various resources they manage.

*Use it*: yes

*Incorrect forms*:

*See also*:

[discrete]
//[[user]]
==== image:images/yes.png[yes] User

> A user is an entity that can log into your system. A user can have attributes associated with themselves like email, username, address, phone number, and birth day. They can be assigned group membership and have specific roles assigned to them.

Reviewer 5: * "birth day" looks odd. I was going to suggest to change it to one word, but in searching it seems like "birth date" 
might be more appropriate.
* Last sentence, I'd suggest "They" -> "Users"
